# Tutor.ia
An AI-powered virtual assistant designed to enhance the learning process through generative AI.

## Overview

This repository contains the code for the document processing pipeline used in the Tutor.IA project. The main.py file serves as the entry point, orchestrating the parsing, splitting, and storage of documents to enable efficient document intelligence. It integrates various features and services, including document analysis, text splitting, and Azure Storage, to ensure a seamless workflow for processing documents. The implementation is designed to handle the end-to-end processing of documents, from configuration to file retrieval, making it a crucial component of the overall document management system.

## Project Structure

This section provides an overview of the directory structure for the Tutor.ia project.

```
    📦 process_docs/
    ├── 📂 src/
    │    ├── 📂 features/
    │    │    ├── 📂 configuration/
    │    │    ├── 📂 parsers/
    │    │    ├── 📂 splitters/
    │    │    ├── 📂 storage/
    │    └── 📄 main.py
    ├── 📄 .env.template
    ├── 📄 poetry.lock
    ├── 📄 pyproject.toml
    └── 📄 README.md
```

- **src/**: Source code directory.
    - **features/**: This subdirectory contains different features for document processing.
        - **configuration/**: Manages application settings and configuration files.
        - **parsers/**: Contains parsers for extracting data from documents.
        - **splitters/**: Includes utilities for splitting document content into sections.
        - **storage/**: Manages interactions with storage services, such as Azure Storage.
    - **main.py**: The entry point of the application. Orchestrates configuration and document processing, including file downloading and analysis.
- **.env.template**: A template file for environment variables. This file can be copied to create the `.env` file; see the [environment variables section](#set-the-environment-variables) for details.
- **poetry.lock**: A lock file generated by Poetry, a dependency management tool for Python. It ensures that the same dependencies are installed across different environments.
- **pyproject.toml**: Configuration file for Poetry and other build tools. It specifies project metadata, dependencies, scripts, and other settings necessary for building and managing the project.
- **README.md**: Project documentation.

## Getting started 

### Set the environment variables

Environment variables are key-value pairs that are accessible to any program running within the environment in which they are set. These variables often contain sensitive information such as API keys, database credentials, or configuration settings. To set them up, just copy the `.env.template` file and make a new file called `.env`. Then, fill in the blanks with the appropiate info, each variable is explained in the below table:

| **Parameter**                               | **Description**                                                                                            |
|---------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| DOCINTELLIGENCE_API_ENDPOINT                | Endpoint URL for the Azure Document Intelligence service instance.                                          |
| DOCINTELLIGENCE_API_KEY                     | API key used to authenticate requests to the Azure Document Intelligence service.                           |
| STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME                        | Name of the Azure Storage account.                                                                          |
| STORAGE_ACCOUNT_CONTAINER                   | Name of the Azure Storage container where the data resides.                                                 |
| STORAGE_ACCOUNT_CONNECTION_STRING           | Connection string for accessing the Azure Storage account.                                                  |


### Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/xoubinha/tutor.ia.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**

   ```bash
   cd process_docs/src
   ```

3. **Create a Virtual Environment and Install the Dependencies**

   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

4. **Activate the Virtual Environment**

     ```bash
     poetry shell
     ```

## Process the documents with Document Intelligence

Process the PDF files that are stored in an Azure Storage Account by running the following command:

```bash
python main.py
```
